Add additional text clarifying how to match vct and doctype (#744)
openid/OpenID4VP: 1.1/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_1.md

`doctype_value`:
: REQUIRED. String that specifies an allowed value for the

> doctype of the requested Verifiable Credential. It MUST be a valid doctype identifier as defined in [@ISO.18013-5]. For a mdoc to satisfy the Credential Query, the value of the `docType` element in the `MobileSecurityObject` structure MUST be equal to the `doctype_value`.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
doctype of the requested Verifiable Credential. It MUST be a valid doctype identifier as defined in [@ISO.18013-5]. For an mdoc to satisfy the Credential Query, the value of the `docType` element in the `MobileSecurityObject` structure MUST be equal to the `doctype_value`.
```

The following is an SD-JWT VC specific parameter in the `meta` parameter in a Credential Query as defined in (#credential_query).

`vct_values`:
: REQUIRED. A non-empty array of strings that specifies allowed values for the type of the requested Verifiable Credential. All elements in the array MUST be valid type identifiers as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc]. To satisfy the Credential Query, a Credential MUST be of a type that is included in the `vct_values` array as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc]. 

> When a Wallet or Verifier needs to determine whether a Credential's type satisfies a Credential Query, it MUST do so by evaluating if at least one of the following true:

Reviewer 2: Note that this is tighter than the language in SD-JWT VC, which allows 'extends' to be considered too - https://drafts.oauth.net/oauth-sd-jwt-vc/draft-ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc.html#section-5.4

If the desired outcome is that only vct & aka_vcts matter, I think we should explicitly state that other data (like extends or any preexisting knowledge the wallet has of types that vct is equivalent to) MUST NOT be used.

However that feels like it would be a breaking change, so I think we need to say that Wallets may choose to return credentials with other vcts at a minimum in the case where aka_vcts is absent.

Reviewer 3: see https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/726#issuecomment-5478442979 
1.1 and 1.0 errata will reference sd-jwt vc

Author: Using just `aka_vcts` is by design. Using `extends` is highly problematic (both due to it being optional, and because it provides an inconsistent definition of extensibility between Wallet and Verifier). 

`aka_vcts` is introduced for that purposes to provide a consistent shared definition so that a Wallet does not return an SD-JWT that a Verifier does not understand. 

I think it would reasonable to provide it as a fallback when not present for backwards compatibility

Reviewer 4: I think that since using `extends` requires an out-of-band relationship anyway, we should not keep the fallback in the spec. Ecosystems that want to use the `extends` mechanism can still do that and the rest of us don't need to know about it. I think writing the "worse" way into the spec might make more people start doing it, which we should avoid.

1. The value of the `vct` claim in the Credential is contained in the `vct_values` array.

> 1. The `aka_vcts` claim is present and has at least one element that is contained in the `aka_vcts` array.

Reviewer 4: Did you mean?

```suggestion
1. The `aka_vcts` claim is present and has at least one element that is contained in the `vct_values` array.
```

Reviewer: Maybe something like this to still allow a verifier to add its own (or ecosystem defined) matching logic?

```suggestion
1. The `aka_vcts` claim is present and has at least one element that is contained in the `vct_values` array.
1. There exists out of band information that the received `vct` value is interpreted as a match with at least one element in the `vct_values` array.
```

The following is an SD-JWT VC specific parameter in the `meta` parameter in a Credential Query as defined in (#credential_query).

`vct_values`:
: REQUIRED. A non-empty array of strings that specifies allowed values for the type of the requested Verifiable Credential. All elements in the array MUST be valid type identifiers as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc]. To satisfy the Credential Query, a Credential MUST either have or inherit from a type that is included in the `vct_values` array as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc]. 

> A Credential's type can be determined as satifying the Credential Query as follows:

Reviewer 4: Sorry to be annoying and do yet another round of suggestions, but I think this should be phrased as a normative requirement. Something like:
```suggestion
The Wallet MUST determine whether a Credential's type satisfies a Credential Query by following these steps:
```

> The Wallet MUST determine whether a Credential's type satisfies a Credential Query by following these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Following steps are defined to determine whether a Credential's type satisfies a Credential Query:
```
incorporating Christian's suggestion and WG discussion to ensure these rules apply not just to the wallet but also the verifier

Reviewer 4: I don't disagree with the suggestion, but I think the normative language should be preserved even when generalizing. Something like:
```suggestion
When a Wallet or Verifier needs to determine whether a Credential's type satisfies a Credential Query, it MUST do so by following these steps:
```

1. Check if the `vct` in the Credential is contained in the `vct_values` array. If it is, the Credential satisfies the Credential Query.

> 1. If is is not, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does repeat this process for the Type metadata  specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present.

Reviewer 4: typos, and I would be more explicit:
```suggestion
1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present.
```

> 1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present.

Reviewer 4: After reading SD-JWT-VC a bit more carefully, I think we should add some language about circular dependencies here
From https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc-16.html#section-6.3-2:

> Consumers MUST detect such circular dependencies and reject the credential.

Maybe something like this, though it might be easier to read if we rewrite the entire paragraph to make the recursive process more explicit:
```suggestion
1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

> 1. If none of the above conditions are met, the Credential's type does not satisfy the Credential Query.

Reviewer 4: to match other sentence structures:
```suggestion
1. If none of the above conditions are met, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

> 1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

> 1. If `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.

Reviewer 4: nit:

```suggestion
1. If the `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

> 1. If the `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Credential has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.

Reviewer 5: The credential does not have an `extends` claim, it is the metadata that does. Additionally, metadata processing is optional.

Reviewer 3: can you suggest changes to the text so that it is more accurate?

Author: Maybe something like: 

```suggestion
1. If the `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array, check if the Type Metadata has an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type Metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

I'm not really sure what to do with the whole 'metadata processing is optional'. If we don't process metadata how would you suggest evaluating what types it extends? Just not allow extends? That seems like a bit of an inter-op problem (if a Verifier requests a type on it's base type but a wallet only evaluates on the final type).

Reviewer: Something like this?
```suggestion
1. If the `vct` in the Credential is not contained in the `vct_values` array and the Verifier supports Type metadata resolution, resolve the Type metadata and check if it contains an `extends` claim. If it does, repeat this process for the Type metadata specified by the `extends` value, until either a match is found or the `extends` claim is not present. If a circular dependency is detected while following the `extends` claims, the Credential does not satisfy the Credential Query.
```

Reviewer 4: I also don't think there's any way to allow extensions if you don't process the metadata.

Author: conversation outdated: now explicitly just saying it matches the 'type' and we do that by seeing if it is `vct` or `aka_vcts`
